README.md, before:

# randomname

Generate random unique ids using real words - like docker containers or github repos.

Often, I get tired of trying to hunt down files in folders differentiated by some numeric id, and unless I need to encode a timestep into the name, I'd rather use an id that's memorable and easy to type.

The wordlists are graciously sourced from: https://github.com/imsky/wordlists

## Install

```bash
pip install randomname
```

## Usage
```bash
# get adj-noun:
$ randomname get
# sleek-voxel
$ randomname get
# frayed-potentiality
$ randomname get
# recursive-vector
$ randomname get
# convoluted-peninsula

# specify adj-noun sub-categories (respectively):
$ randomname get weather shopping,cats
# freezing-store

# or define your own format:
$ randomname generate adj/sound n/apex_predators
# blaring-crocodile

# use multiple categories:
$ randomname generate v/art,v/thought a/sound n/apex_predators
# doodle-silent-salamander

# mix in your own words (e.g. "cat"):
$ randomname generate v/fire a/music_theory n/cats cat
# toast-adagio-angora-cat
```

The lists include various word classes:
- `adjectives` (`a`, `adj`) - ya know those describe-y things
    - e.g. `a/colors`, `adj/shape`, `adjectives/sound`
- `nouns` (`n`, `nn`) - people, places, things dawg
    - e.g. `n/cats`, `nn/ghosts`, `nouns/wine`
- `verbs` (`v`, `vb`) - doing things
    - e.g. `v/art`, `vb/3d_graphics`
- `names` (`nm`) - things like surnames, streets, cities, etc.
    - e.g. `nm/cities`, `names/codenames`
- `ipsum` (`ip`) - misc.
    - e.g. `ip/reddit`, `ipsum/blockchain`

## It's importable too!

```python
import randomname

# generate name using all categories
name = randomname.get_name()
# or specify a subset of the categories
name = randomname.get_name(adj=('music_theory',), noun=('cats', 'food'))
# or - you can take a bit more liberty about
name = randomname.generate(
    'v/fire', 'adj/music_theory', ('n/cats', 'n/food'))

# these contain the available groups
print('adjective categories:', randomname.ADJECTIVES)
print('noun categories:', randomname.NOUNS)
```

## Available
adjectives:
> `speed`, `weather`, `shape`, `sound`, `physics`, `temperature`, `corporate_prefixes`, `complexity`, `colors`, `taste`, `quantity`, `size`, `algorithms`, `geometry`, `materials`, `construction`, `music_theory`, `appearance`, `linguistics`, `emotions`, `age`, `character`

nouns:      
> `accounting`, `fortifications`, `typography`, `spirits`, `cotton`, `car_parts`, `shopping`, `chemistry`, `seasonings`, `gaming`, `cats`, `real_estate`, `wood`, `military_navy`, `wine`, `music_production`, `sports`, `meat`, `physics`, `physics_waves`, `corporate`, `web_development`, `condiments`, `design`, `automobiles`, `metals`, `fast_food`, `radio`, `physics_units`, `military_airforce`, `3d_printing`, `3d_graphics`, `travel`, `dogs`, `houses`, `astronomy`, `buildings`, `minerals`, `startups`, `algorithms`, `fruit`, `apex_predators`, `infrastructure`, `geometry`, `set_theory`, `ghosts`, `military_army`, `music_instruments`, `filmmaking`, `birds`, `construction`, `music_theory`, `corporate_job`, `driving`, `linear_algebra`, `fish`, `coding`, `architecture`, `writing`, `phones`, `machine_learning`, `furniture`, `history`, `plants`, `cheese`, `food`, `containers`, `vcs`, `water`, `storage`, `geography`, `physics_optics`, `data_structures`, `screenwriting`, `insurance`

verbs:
> `graphics`, `movement`, `music`, `cooking`, `thought`, `military_navy`, `music_production`, `manipulation`, `sports`, `corporate`, `creation`, `destruction`, `quantity`, `radio`, `3d_graphics`, `look`, `fire`, `collection`, `programming`, `art`, `driving`, `vcs`, `communication`, `web`

ipsum:
> `corporate`, `hipster`, `blockchain`, `lorem`, `reddit`

## Examples
> `extremal-cluster`, `cerulean-portal`, `afraid-cabana`, `forward-segment`, `angry-croissant`, `coffee-shore`, `binding-frontlist`, `nondeterministic-wall`, `cool-quail`, `optical-valid`, `ornery-solenoid`, `immense-aside`, `square-loan`, `fast-limiter`, `wicker-tritone`, `white-commander`, `wan-flam`, `violent-slider`, `isothermal-lark`, `seething-luggage`, `resolving-section`, `steel-snippet`, `shortest-linkage`, `oscillating-palisade`, `tense-nailer`, `adjacent-sea`, `mechanical-molding`, `cold-feed`, `either-scene`, `crazy-boundary`, `simple-bass`, `roaring-annuity`, `paper-melt`, `scared-angle`, `shiny-hydrolysis`, `ornery-pretzel`, `brute-force-keel`, `worn-cliff`, `brownian-contingency`, `naive-shop`, `heartless-object`, `bronze-microphone`, `universal-yeoman`, `icy-reflection`, `blue-cliche`, `forward-integrator`, `trusting-cobra`, `online-assignment`, `religious-gun`, `quiet-hook`, `blaring-quaver`, `archaic-height`, `eager-oboe`, `leather-narrator`, `shortest-bucket`, `free-matrix`, `radioactive-loss`, `glossy-take`, `formal-schema`, `quantum-agreement`, `local-bit`, `bone-centroid`, `cyan-resin`, `mild-chimpanzee`, `mute-bugle`, `amiable-margin`, `basic-pond`, `humane-tangerine`, `horizontal-bocaccio`, `big-export`, `pleasant-facet`, `fixed-glass`, `muffled-futon`, `volumetric-simulation`, `piercing-skier`, `pleasant-observatory`, `honest-hound`, `cross-recon`, `future-surface`, `ash-crew`, `medium-stunt`, `latent-mayonnaise`, `nippy-valance`, `open-gate`, `crazy-papaya`, `khaki-bat`, `honest-melon`, `congruent-truss`, `express-flat`, `glad-simulation`, `sizzling-parakeet`, `interior-pantone`, `coplanar-gully`, `merciless-mud`, `direct-asadero`, `several-jackdaw`, `wide-agent`, `fixed-heather`, `kind-slab`, `genteel-designer`

Commit message:

add notice abt reporting words

README.md, after:

# randomname

Generate random unique ids using real words - like docker containers or github repos.

Often, I get tired of trying to hunt down files in folders differentiated by some numeric id, and unless I need to encode a timestep into the name, I'd rather use an id that's memorable and easy to type.

The wordlists are graciously sourced from: https://github.com/imsky/wordlists

> NOTICE: If you come across any words in these wordlists that are offensive, pleaseplspls report them to me in an issue! Any of these word lists used come from external sources and there are lots of words.

## Install

```bash
pip install randomname
```

## Usage
```bash
# get adj-noun:
$ randomname get
# sleek-voxel
$ randomname get
# frayed-potentiality
$ randomname get
# recursive-vector
$ randomname get
# convoluted-peninsula

# specify adj-noun sub-categories (respectively):
$ randomname get weather shopping,cats
# freezing-store

# or define your own format:
$ randomname generate adj/sound n/apex_predators
# blaring-crocodile

# use multiple categories:
$ randomname generate v/art,v/thought a/sound n/apex_predators
# doodle-silent-salamander

# mix in your own words (e.g. "cat"):
$ randomname generate v/fire a/music_theory n/cats cat
# toast-adagio-angora-cat
```

The lists include various word classes:
- `adjectives` (`a`, `adj`) - ya know those describe-y things
    - e.g. `a/colors`, `adj/shape`, `adjectives/sound`
- `nouns` (`n`, `nn`) - people, places, things dawg
    - e.g. `n/cats`, `nn/ghosts`, `nouns/wine`
- `verbs` (`v`, `vb`) - doing things
    - e.g. `v/art`, `vb/3d_graphics`
- `names` (`nm`) - things like surnames, streets, cities, etc.
    - e.g. `nm/cities`, `names/codenames`
- `ipsum` (`ip`) - misc.
    - e.g. `ip/reddit`, `ipsum/blockchain`

## It's importable too!

```python
import randomname

# generate name using all categories
name = randomname.get_name()
# or specify a subset of the categories
name = randomname.get_name(adj=('music_theory',), noun=('cats', 'food'))
# or - you can take a bit more liberty about
name = randomname.generate(
    'v/fire', 'adj/music_theory', ('n/cats', 'n/food'))

# these contain the available groups
print('adjective categories:', randomname.ADJECTIVES)
print('noun categories:', randomname.NOUNS)
```

## Available
adjectives:
> `speed`, `weather`, `shape`, `sound`, `physics`, `temperature`, `corporate_prefixes`, `complexity`, `colors`, `taste`, `quantity`, `size`, `algorithms`, `geometry`, `materials`, `construction`, `music_theory`, `appearance`, `linguistics`, `emotions`, `age`, `character`

nouns:      
> `accounting`, `fortifications`, `typography`, `spirits`, `cotton`, `car_parts`, `shopping`, `chemistry`, `seasonings`, `gaming`, `cats`, `real_estate`, `wood`, `military_navy`, `wine`, `music_production`, `sports`, `meat`, `physics`, `physics_waves`, `corporate`, `web_development`, `condiments`, `design`, `automobiles`, `metals`, `fast_food`, `radio`, `physics_units`, `military_airforce`, `3d_printing`, `3d_graphics`, `travel`, `dogs`, `houses`, `astronomy`, `buildings`, `minerals`, `startups`, `algorithms`, `fruit`, `apex_predators`, `infrastructure`, `geometry`, `set_theory`, `ghosts`, `military_army`, `music_instruments`, `filmmaking`, `birds`, `construction`, `music_theory`, `corporate_job`, `driving`, `linear_algebra`, `fish`, `coding`, `architecture`, `writing`, `phones`, `machine_learning`, `furniture`, `history`, `plants`, `cheese`, `food`, `containers`, `vcs`, `water`, `storage`, `geography`, `physics_optics`, `data_structures`, `screenwriting`, `insurance`

verbs:
> `graphics`, `movement`, `music`, `cooking`, `thought`, `military_navy`, `music_production`, `manipulation`, `sports`, `corporate`, `creation`, `destruction`, `quantity`, `radio`, `3d_graphics`, `look`, `fire`, `collection`, `programming`, `art`, `driving`, `vcs`, `communication`, `web`

ipsum:
> `corporate`, `hipster`, `blockchain`, `lorem`, `reddit`

## Examples
> `extremal-cluster`, `cerulean-portal`, `afraid-cabana`, `forward-segment`, `angry-croissant`, `coffee-shore`, `binding-frontlist`, `nondeterministic-wall`, `cool-quail`, `optical-valid`, `ornery-solenoid`, `immense-aside`, `square-loan`, `fast-limiter`, `wicker-tritone`, `white-commander`, `wan-flam`, `violent-slider`, `isothermal-lark`, `seething-luggage`, `resolving-section`, `steel-snippet`, `shortest-linkage`, `oscillating-palisade`, `tense-nailer`, `adjacent-sea`, `mechanical-molding`, `cold-feed`, `either-scene`, `crazy-boundary`, `simple-bass`, `roaring-annuity`, `paper-melt`, `scared-angle`, `shiny-hydrolysis`, `ornery-pretzel`, `brute-force-keel`, `worn-cliff`, `brownian-contingency`, `naive-shop`, `heartless-object`, `bronze-microphone`, `universal-yeoman`, `icy-reflection`, `blue-cliche`, `forward-integrator`, `trusting-cobra`, `online-assignment`, `religious-gun`, `quiet-hook`, `blaring-quaver`, `archaic-height`, `eager-oboe`, `leather-narrator`, `shortest-bucket`, `free-matrix`, `radioactive-loss`, `glossy-take`, `formal-schema`, `quantum-agreement`, `local-bit`, `bone-centroid`, `cyan-resin`, `mild-chimpanzee`, `mute-bugle`, `amiable-margin`, `basic-pond`, `humane-tangerine`, `horizontal-bocaccio`, `big-export`, `pleasant-facet`, `fixed-glass`, `muffled-futon`, `volumetric-simulation`, `piercing-skier`, `pleasant-observatory`, `honest-hound`, `cross-recon`, `future-surface`, `ash-crew`, `medium-stunt`, `latent-mayonnaise`, `nippy-valance`, `open-gate`, `crazy-papaya`, `khaki-bat`, `honest-melon`, `congruent-truss`, `express-flat`, `glad-simulation`, `sizzling-parakeet`, `interior-pantone`, `coplanar-gully`, `merciless-mud`, `direct-asadero`, `several-jackdaw`, `wide-agent`, `fixed-heather`, `kind-slab`, `genteel-designer`
